what I'm gonna show you is a couple
visualizations for peer-to-peer
protocols and kind of like a general
idea for lipid EP so I'm probably gonna
show some of this for station again
tomorrow for the parody folks but the so
you know you get two rounds of it but
the general so right I'm gonna show you
a demo of something we built for file
coin but it's generally enough to apply
to ipfs and lipid beam-in in general so
this is really a tool for for low p2p
meant for low p2p and for debugging some
protocols nub of it so I'll start with
like the general idea that visualizing
distributed protocols is a hard thing
and there's all been a bunch of like
interesting work on this it's like how
do you reason about some like really
complicated you know thing going on with
a whole bunch of like different machines
and different roles and messages going
through and so you know for a long time
the conventional wisdom was hey you just
need to look at log traces to understand
what's going on and and maybe if you
could actually like take those block
traces and visualize and maybe you could
find the bug in like seconds not not
days so not only that but you could
explain how a protocol should function
to people in much simpler ways so
there's a bunch of history around this
and people have tried different things I
think I'll call out a really good one
for raft
it's called raft scope and it's part of
the it's in the home page of the raft
consensus protocol actually let me make
sure that I'm recording my my screen
I'll just keep going from here so this
is this is say a visualization of raft I
can't make this page bigger for some
reason there we go
whoops so what's going on here so you
see five nodes and here's the internal
raft timers they're gonna expire and
then they're gonna try to get elected
leaders this one kind of went first so
that was kind of a failed round because
multiple tried to get elect at the same
time but now the clocks kind of like got
reshuffled so it looks like s4 is gonna
win the next election you're gonna run
Oh yep there we go so now those votes
are are correct and now as for is
starting to replicate content for some
reason this is a little bit buggy it
might be a quick time run quick time and
this at the same time is unhappy but
this is now starting to like replicated
the this is now like the proper leader
so I think at this point I could enter a
value or something and remember how to
use this actually I can pause and like
resume the whole thing here I'm gonna
pause quick time because I think it's
like totally wrecking everything
sorry we're gonna have to like record
that at another time let me refresh
great I'm gonna speed it up whoa to fuss
I think at this point I should be able
to enter values maybe not
anyway this this is supposed to be an
interactive tool that allows you to do
play with the protocol and to understand
it so you can kill nodes and and define
start adding values to see how the state
machine replication works oh there we go
stop so I just stopped that node maybe
it stopped the whole thing play yeah so
now s2 is dead and then I can bring it
back and so on anyway so this is like a
live full implementation of the protocol
and allows you to kind of think about it
and debug it so what I would like is to
be able to do that with not just a
different implementation of the protocol
in JavaScript but with the actual
implementation so the protocols as they
are in live nodes whether it's go or
JavaScript or whatever and the way to do
this is we can take the protocols
themselves and take the event logs from
the protocols and take you know extract
that trace combine all the event logs
from all of the different nodes and then
use that to then show a visualization
and we could either collect all these
traces and keep them and then play back
the visualization whenever or we could
do it real time like we could actually
like visualize something live so I'm
gonna show you a version of this
implemented and this is an old idea so
this was like discussed years ago and
yeah doesn't 15 and I think this was
like a very first implementation of this
you could like play it and and so on but
I'm going to show you a nicer nicer one
so yeah so this is actually going to to
spawn a visualization so the depth depth
chart over there is it's kind of broken
actually let me I have a bug so I have
to like star
with a minor instead of a client
otherwise he won't work no whoops
roll again what's that yeah I know I'm
seriously serious like I should just fix
my damn bug
I would like to revert the last change
that I did that introduced us
great great so so that's a that's a
minor ignore the depth chart that's
wrong
and so now these are each of these is a
live file coin node in my machine and
they're set to like a second block time
so they're going really fast and so this
is each one of the like that the the
money moving is an actual transaction
being being propagated yeah let me let
me play with the timing us a little bit
too fast to to to see let's do two
seconds so this will now take longer and
now we have to pray that it's like a
minor not a client oh no damn it
roll again survey says it so the whole
thing is like there we go so what's
happening here is that there's a process
it's simulator that is picking randomly
between a set of choices and you know it
might spawn a node that joins the
network so you know every two seconds it
like randomly spawns a node and then it
connects it to the network and then
every so many seconds it'll like throw a
random action and it chooses from a
number of actions so there's like yeah
it's asks at bids cents a transaction
reminds a block so again like that depth
chart is all totally wrong this is a
work in progress but what's going on
here is those are actual nodes and
what's getting parsed here is the event
logs as they come out of go file coin
and those event logs are then
transformed into something that this
visualization can consume so I'm gonna
want to kind of walk through that
so I think so
scrap yeah I'm just gonna try and like
let's see
I'm gonna try and hook into one of these
let me edit the command in a nicer thing
wait I think I want event log log tail I
think
so I think about do this so this is
what's pumping out of the Falkor nodes
themselves and so maybe that note is not
getting so I got like two messages out
so every once in a while like things are
happening and this is pumping out logs
these are all JSON this is the exact
same kind of event log structure that is
in Go ipfs so it's the same idea and all
that go--let p2p code is full of this
stuff so you'll notice that some of
these events are actually the same thing
that go up if s emits maybe most of
these are specific but a bunch
of these are are like dials and so on I
guess maybe I silenced those but what
what this simulator does is then take
that event log and then parse it into
into this so these logs are what the the
web visualization receives so what's
going on is that we're letting the
program define its own event log however
it wants because it's gonna you know
that's gonna change over time and people
are gonna make decisions about how that
should be based on what makes sense for
that program and then we write the
visualization and we want to create an
event trace that makes sense for the
visualization with events that make
sense for what we actually want to see
so in this case it's like nodes entering
and leaving it's like a block being
propagated a transaction going through
and so on and so you know you might
notice that these are like a lot shorter
than the other ones and so in that
transformation a bunch of logs are being
being dropped out and then they're
they're getting transformed into
something that the JavaScript can
consume they're also getting aggregated
so each of these nodes we're taking all
of those event logs and putting them
into the same pipe and then pushing it
to the to the visualization on the web
so a way to look at that is so there's
there's all these events that we want to
track and yeah so we have a program and
it outputs event log
and there's the thing called file netsim
for now that then issues commands and
then takes all the event logs and then
outputs it to the logs thing and I can
do this for and so that includes like a
now we're controller or a simulator and
so on and I could should be able to do
that over all all of these programs and
I can put in as many as I want and the
cool thing is that not only can this
work on a simulator in my computer this
should be able to work over any nodes I
should be able to like grab random notes
right so I could actually like refresh
this page and it should like download
the entire log history and play it back
so that was that's maybe not what is so
I think like that's d3 choking on like
all of the animation sequences but now
it's back to its caught up right and so
ideally there would be like a you know
bar that would you know allow you show
you allow you to kind of stop and play
back and you know rewind and so on but
uh but yeah this is like hooking into
like a live you could hook this into a
live network and then you know you could
with ipfs we could use this to view our
our nose and our gateways and see what
they're up to and what kind of messages
they're they're showing and the cool
idea is that we should be able to
generate a bunch of different end
visualizations that show us different
things that we want to want to see like
in some cases we want to just see the
DHT and just focus on a DHT protocol and
it's not ipfs specific it's just let p2p
DHT specific and that's it in other
cases we might want to see something
much more very different and so we can
choose the visualization to target what
we want to see so in this case we put
them all in a ring but just as these
easily we could put them on a map so we
could actually have like a globe and put
them there and so on and so the it's
kind of like a very nimble architecture
that such that if all of the processes
stick to this event log thing and then
we have this simulator that can like
easily spawn them and send commands and
extract those logs and then transform
them into what the visualization wants
and then we can write like you know a
custom visualization per
we want to see and a bunch of these will
be reusable components and you know the
idea is to is to have something like you
know you probably have seen blocks from
Ford III right where people would just
write a gist and then you could see kind
of like real d3 magic happening ideally
would be as easy to to write one of
these like visualization plugins and
then run it like have both like collect
some traces and then write run this
visualization over a trace and then see
see something about it and both help
this helps debug this helps understand
these protocols it helps you teach about
the tissue what's going on and so on so
that's kind of the goal of that of that
tool yeah so through this slash logs so
yeah it's it's so final that sim is both
it's a single program that is issuing
all the commands and spinning them up
collecting the event logs and then
aggregating them and buffering some of
them because you actually want to keep a
buffer a certain size so you can refresh
the page easily and then exposing them
over HTTP so that serves the assets
themselves and and the aggregate it logs
but but all of this could change this
was just kind of a hack to to get it
together if we wanted to do this pretty
generally for the p2p what we would want
is that central thing to be generic and
be a single program and then you would
probably write another program that
either uses that one as a library or or
is invoked by that one that you know
sends the commands and Trent converts
the logs but we only need to write that
one thing that controller and output our
logs and so on we just need to write
that one one time and then what a single
visualization would do is it would say
I want to filter for these event logs
and I want to transform in this way and
so what that could looks like it's
pretty simple so in this visualization
is this part where I just have like this
huge switch statement where whenever I
see you know I I ingest the aggregated
logs from all the different nodes and
then whenever I see an event I convert
it into a different event I go from like
the event specific to the to the program
to the events specific to the
visualization and so just by applying
each of these filters I go from you know
the implementation specific thing to the
thing that my visualization wants and
then we would have to also write the
visualization but that's I think kind of
unavoidable because you you end up
wanting a lot of different things we
might have some like reusable components
like if we have the ability to stop
playback and so on maybe that can be
written once but you know visualizing
Magana DHD will be different from
visualizing it so op which will be
different from visualizing pops up which
will be different from visualizing a lot
of this stuff so yeah but so this allows
us to the simulator and the
visualization can be like not running
and as long as you're capturing the
event logs from the original process
which is just standard logging procedure
as long as you're capturing those logs
you can then sift those through this
simulator whenever you want and so you
can replay them in the future you know
whatever you want so this could also
work for test Suites so you could run a
test suite and then test files and one
of its outputs is not just like the
standard route but also all of the event
logs and then you can take the event
logs throw them into simulator and then
see what's up
yeah and so we could we could uh you
know automate a lot of a lot of that so
and and uh you know this is like a this
is a virtualization that we that we
wrote and I think it like choked for
some reason and like not killing process
he's so a bunch of processes hang so I
have probably had like hundreds of
outgoing processes or thousands but I
mean this is like pretty simple you
could you could see something much more
sophisticated like a 3d glow and like
all the things on it or you know some
other kind of some other ways to
visualize a visual icing things
especially for pops up with aggregating
trees and so on you could play around
with the latency stand latencies could
show you like the distance on between
two nodes and then you can see the
messages propagating through and so you
could see whether the like it's the
algorithm forming the tree correctly is
the algorithm propagating correctly oh
like this message is getting through but
like it through this node but not this
one what's going on you know it would
allow us to do a lot of that kind of
kind of debugging but yeah so cool any
other questions
sweet sounds good that's it
yep yeah exactly and and sometimes your
model is actually wrong so so you think
that something is going on because
you've you've thought about this
protocol a lot and you have something
going on but something changed and now
something else is going on and now not
only are you like trying to simulate it
in your mind you're trying to debug
yourself and make sure that like your
mental model still correct so yeah
actually using a real visualization
would be probably better and and even in
a third case which is this is a great
visualization of Raft designed by
somebody else who which is so this might
be a little bit more extreme but part of
this is is what we could do like that
this shows this walks you through the
entire algorithm and it demonstrates how
it might work some of the components
here could be used where you could
generate a specific trace and then play
it back into the simulation and then
that that way you can explain how an
algorithm works right so for a DHD and
in helping to understand how like the
DHT traversal would work this would be
super nice because you can just write
that and then play it for the person
learning right so
it'd be a way way simpler to understand
how a lot of these these protocols work
yes I'm gonna put a little the link to
this one into each of this because it's
definitely like a much easier way to
understand that protocol and then
reading a paper yeah thank you